Editorial review: add interpolate-size and calc-size() (#35934)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/interpolate-size/index.md

---
title: interpolate-size
slug: Web/CSS/interpolate-size
page-type: css-property
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: css.properties.interpolate-size
---

{{CSSRef}}{{seecompattable}}

> The **`interpolate-size`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property allows you to enable [animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animations) and [transitions](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_transitions) between a [`<length-percentage>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/length-percentage) value and an [intrinsic size value](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Intrinsic_Size) such as `auto`, [`fit-content`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/fit-content), or [`max-content`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/max-content).
> 
> This property is typically used to animate the {{cssxref("width")}} and/or {{cssxref("height")}} of a container between a `<length-percentage>` and the full size of its content (i.e. between "closed" and "open" or "hide" and "reveal" states).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`interpolate-size`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property allows you to enable [animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animations) and [transitions](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_transitions) between a [`<length-percentage>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/length-percentage) value and an [intrinsic size](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Intrinsic_Size) keyword value such as `auto`, [`fit-content`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/fit-content), or [`max-content`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/max-content).

This property is typically used to animate the {{cssxref("inline-size")}} and/or {{cssxref("block-size")}} of a container between a `<length-percentage>` and the full size of its content (i.e. between "closed" and "open" or "hide" and "reveal" states) when animating a non-box-model CSS property, such as {{cssxref("transform")}}, is not a viable solution.
```

Reviewer: link "interpolation" at some point to the glossary, or add the glossary term to the see also

Author: Suggestion implemented.

I've linked the first instance of "interpolation" to the glossary entry

> [!NOTE]
> The behavior opted-into by `interpolate-size` cannot be enabled by default across the web because many sites in the wild use stylesheets that assume intrinsic size values cannot be animated. Enabling it by default would cause several backwards-compatibility issues (see relevant [CSS WG discussion](https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/issues/626#issuecomment-2071016522)).

## Syntax

```css
/* Keyword values */
interpolate-size: allow-keywords;
interpolate-size: numeric-only;

/* Global values */
interpolate-size: inherit;
interpolate-size: initial;
interpolate-size: revert;
interpolate-size: revert-layer;
interpolate-size: unset;
```

### Values

- `allow-keywords`
  - : Enables interpolation between a [`<length-percentage>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/length-percentage) value and an intrinsic size value, to allow animation between the two.
- `numeric-only`
  - : The default behavior — intrinsic size values cannot be interpolated.

## Description

> `interpolate-size: allow-keywords` enables interpolation between a [`<length-percentage>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/length-percentage) value and an intrinsic size value. Note that it does not enable animating between two intrinsic size values. One end of the animation must be a `<length-percentage>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting `interpolate-size: allow-keywords` enables interpolation between a [`<length-percentage>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/length-percentage) value and an intrinsic size value. Note that it does not enable animating between two intrinsic size values. One end of the animation must be a `<length-percentage>`.
```
to not start with a lowercase

Author: updated

> `interpolate-size` is inherited, so animating to (or from) an intrinsic size value can be enabled for an entire document by setting it on the document root:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `interpolate-size` value is inherited, so animating to (or from) an intrinsic size value can be enabled for an entire document by setting it on the document root:
```

Author: updated

```css
:root {
  interpolate-size: allow-keywords;
}
```

> If you want to limit the scope, you can set it on the relevant container element:
> 
> ```css
> main {
>   /* Enable only for <main> and its descendents */
>   interpolate-size: allow-keywords;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to limit the scope, you can set it on the relevant container element. The following enable interpolating intrinsic sizes only for `<main>` and its descendants:

```css
main {
  interpolate-size: allow-keywords;
```

Author: updated

}
```

> [!NOTE]

> > The {{cssxref("calc-size()")}} function can also be used to enable animations between a `<length-percentage>` and an intrinsic size value, when used to specify a value to animate or transition to/from. However, `interpolate-size` is simpler to implement in most cases, especially when there are multiple animations to consider (it only needs to be declared once). `calc-size()` should only be used if you need to create animations that include performing calculations on an intrinsic size value.

Reviewer: see comment on calc-size

Author: updated

### Values that can be interpolated

> At the time of writing, the following intrinsic values can be opted-in to animations:

Reviewer 2: This is a Chrome limitation. I’m not sure if other browsers – when they ship this – would have these same limitations. They could, for example, support `stretch` out of of the box.

(I’m also not sure if _“At the time of writing”_ is something that conforms to MDN’s writing style)

Author: I've changed the wording to "The following intrinsic values can currently be opted-in to animations:" for now. It might be that it is better to provide a full list here, and then mention the Chrome state of support in the browser compat data. I'll see what the editorial reviewer thinks too.

- `auto`
- {{cssxref("min-content")}}
- {{cssxref("max-content")}}
- {{cssxref("fit-content")}}
- `content` (for containers sized using {{cssxref("flex-basis")}}).

## Formal definition

{{cssinfo}}

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

### Basic `interpolate-size` usage

This example demonstrates how to set `interpolate-size: allow-keywords` on a document to enable animations involving an intrinsic size. The demo features a character badge/"name tag", which can be hovered or focused to reveal information about the character. The reveal is handled by a {{cssxref("height")}} transition between a set length and `max-content`.

#### HTML

The HTML contains a single {{htmlelement("section")}} element with [`tabindex="0"`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/tabindex) set on it so it can receive keyboard focus. The `<section>` contains {{htmlelement("header")}} and {{htmlelement("main")}} elements, each with their own child content.

```html
<section tabindex="0">
  <header>

>     <h2>Chris Mills</h2>

Reviewer: Suggest always trying to encourage inclusivity on MDN by using diverse names in examples. Maybe "Tanuki"?

Author: OK, Tanuki is now the silent phantom of MDN, on this page ;-)

  </header>
  <main>
    <p>Chris is the silent phantom of MDN.</p>
    <ul>
      <li><strong>Height</strong>: 3.03m</li>
      <li><strong>Weight</strong>: 160kg</li>
      <li><strong>Tech Fu</strong>: 7</li>
      <li><strong>Bad Jokes</strong>: 9</li>
    </ul>
  </main>
</section>
```

#### CSS

```css hidden
* {
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

section {
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
  width: 175px;
  border-radius: 5px;
  background: #eee;
  box-shadow:
    inset 1px 1px 4px rgb(255 255 255 / 0.5),
    inset -1px -1px 4px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);
}

header {
  padding: 10px;
  border-bottom: 2px solid #ccc;
}

main {
  padding: 10px;
}

h2 {
  margin: 0;
  font-weight: 400;
  font-size: 1.1rem;
  text-align: center;
  letter-spacing: 1px;
}

p,
li {
  font-size: 0.8rem;
  line-height: 1.5;
}

p {
  margin-top: 0;
}
```

In the CSS, we first set `interpolate-size: allow-keywords` on the {{cssxref(":root")}}, to enable it for the whole document.

```css
:root {
  interpolate-size: allow-keywords;
}
```

> We then set the `<section>`'s {{cssxref("height")}} to `42px` and {{cssxref("overflow")}} to `hidden` so only the `<header>` is shown by default, then specify a `transition` that animates the `<section>` `height` over 1 second during state change. Finally, we set the `<section>` `height` on {{cssxref(":hover")}} and {{cssxref(":focus")}} to `max-content`.

Reviewer: same edits as calc-size

Author: Yup, done.
